right we're going to look now at UK US
diplomacy because foreign secretary
David Cameron is the latest European
leader to make the trip to Washington
just a few hours ago he met US Secretary
of State Anthony blinkin here talks
focused on well the two major conflicts
bringing stability to the Middle East
and the war in Ukraine now Republican
lawmakers have been holding up a
proposed 60 billion dollar military aid
package for Ukraine for months
Republican house Speaker Mike Johnson
has n let the Ukraine Aid issue be
debated in the House of Representatives
as yet now Lord Cameron said it wasn't
for foreign politicians to tell uh
lawmakers In Another Country what to do
but he urged Congress to see the funding
released I think it is absolutely
interests of US security uh that Putin
fails in his illegal Invasion I think
it's good for us jobs uh that we
continue to back uh Ukraine with the
weapons that they need and I think in
terms of how the United States the
United Kingdom as allies are seen around
the world um there will be people in
Teran in pongyang in Beijing looking at
how we stand by our allies how we help
them how we stop this uh illegal and
unprovoked aggression and working out
whether we are committed whether we're
prepared to see it through and Mr
blinkin said they' also talked about
ways to prevent the transfer of weapons
to Russia particularly from China and
North Korea this is an ongoing challenge
uh and we see um weapons U we also see
Technologies to support the defense
industrial base in uh Russia coming from
North Korea from Iran from China this is
an area of particular concern for not
only the United States and the United
Kingdom but many of our allies and
partners throughout Europe let's speak
now to our state department
correspondent Tom baitman hi Tom so what
should we take away from that pressure
conference well the most significant bit
of news was an answer to M that Lord
Cameron gave to a question I asked him
in the Press briefing there which was
about the growing pressure on the UK
government to Halt armed sales to Israel
around the issue of whether or not
Israel had been deemed by the UK to be
in breach of international humanitarian
law in Gaza now um Lord Cameron had said
on the 8th of March that he would
receive legal advice within days about
that issue but here we are a month later
and there had still been no announcement
so I asked him that question what um did
the UK government deem um Israel to have
done when it came to International
humanitarian law and he confirmed in his
answer that the UK would continue to
supply weapons to Israel and therefore
that a review had taken place and my
understanding is these are fairly broad
not just legal reviews but also
policy-based
reviews and under that uh the UK would
continue to um uh sell uh what is around
a 35 million pound a year uh trade in
weapons to the Israelis but he also said
that they continue to have concerns
about the issue and they would continue
to review it um so that was there too
but that was a significant uh moment in
that news briefing there okay Tom thank
you very much for that going to take a
look now at the issue of ukra ukine we
can speak to a global Affairs analyst
and Senior fellow at the Atlantic
Council Michael bosu who's in Odessa in
Ukraine thank you very much for coming
on the program my pleasure good to be
with you so let's talk about this issue
of politicians going from one country to
another saying well we can't tell you
what to do but you really ought to do
this basically Lord Cameron today in
Washington urging well expressing his
support for Ukraine and urging the us to
do the same how do you find that balance
that diplomatic
balance well it was very entertaining I
think Lord Cameron was being very tight
lipped about his trip to Florida but I
am quite sure I would bet money on it
that he told Mr Trump exactly what's
going to happen if that 60 billion
dollar in Aid which is being blocked by
his mother Republicans will not reach
Ukraine and I noticed that both um
ministers made the point that a lot of
this money that is your mark for Ukraine
is not going to be loaded on to pallets
and you know airlifted to Ukraine it's
actually going to stay in the United
States and create jobs that's a message
that the American public needs to hear
but um the other quick thing that came
out is I noticed uh Lord Cameron was
almost ahead of his count us counterpart
Mr blink in terms of his conviction in
terms of his passion in terms of the
arguments made for Aid to Ukraine it's
almost as if the Americans were a bit
hedgy about it but Lord Cameron really
his message really came through that if
this war is not stopped if this Aid is
not delivered Putin will go further and
it will become a lot more cost C for
everybody and the potential hesitancy
yes there's diplomatic politics at play
there's Party politics at play is it
simple geography as well country is far
away seen as a far away problem oh yeah
absolutely uh the message I got out of
today more clearly than ever is that it
it is now the United Kingdom and Europe
that are going to take the lead on the
so-called ukra file in terms of helping
Ukraine for example booler their
domestic production of ammunition but um
the other thing that came through is I
think Lord Cameron rightly tiptoed
through everything because it is a very
complicated Diplomat sorry political
scene in the United States right now
where the man who has basic control over
this vote speaker Johnson I think he
does support Ukraine I think he does
have the votes to make that bill pass I
think he knows that uh the US public
support this but he's prioritizing his
own political future over everything
else that he wants to remain important
in that Trump wing of the Republican
party and what's going to happen there
if he continues along this path I think
people will see him as a man who could
not summon the DI the political courage
to do the right thing and hence this war
will continue to go on for a lot longer
than it has to and what do you think the
implications would be for Ukraine if
Trump won the presidency well absolutely
horrible he views himself as the master
of the art of the deal he will try to
bring it to resolution in 24 hours uh
leaked reports from closed door
conversations he's had indicate what
most of us believe is that he'll give
into territorial concessions Crimea will
remain in Russian hands uh the donbas
other areas that Russia has seized
including that crucial land bridge
between the Russian Mainland and um and
the western part of Ukraine and uh he'll
probably um give the signals to Mr Putin
that he can go even further I mean
there's a lot of nervousness I have to
tell you right here in Odessa we've had
alarms air rate alarms uh most of the
day and night and missiles coming this
way it's it's not going the right way
whatsoever well I just want to just very
briefly just expand on exactly that
because I wanted to highlight that that
is exactly where you are and ask a bit
about what life is like and how it is
going right now a couple of things I
mean I'm very close to to the port and
these strikes tend to uh Target
electrical infrastructure if there's no
power there's no Port uh at working and
there's no grain going to World Markets
uh the other thing on the other side of
the country in khu it's really hell on
Earth um being bombed relentlessly it
does look like the Russians are on an L
campaign to turn it into a a piece of
rubble of gry Zone and possibly even
encircle it uh so very very bad news
coming out of hard tonight as well
Michael bosu we really appreciate your
time thank you